Docs 8133 as2 v6.0 UG (#801)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/as2/as2-connector-upgrade-migrate-6-0.adoc

= AS2 Connector 6.0.0 - Upgrade and Migrate - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

== Supported Upgrade Paths

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|From Version | To Version
|5.x |6.x
|===

== Changes in This Release (v6.0)

This release contains the following changes:

> * Digitally signed copies of outgoing and received messages and their corresponding receipts can be saved for Non-repudiation purposes as long as they are configured and enabled on AS2 connector operations and sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Digitally signed copies of outgoing and received messages and their corresponding receipts can be saved for non-repudiation as long as they are configured and enabled on AS2 Connector operations and sources.
```

> * The new Mule source `Non repudiation listener` must be user-configured to persist the Non-Repudiation information provided by any of the AS2 Connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The new Mule source `Non repudiation listener` must be user-configured to persist the non-repudiation information provided by any of the AS2 Connector
```

operations and sources via a user-defined persistence strategy.

> * Certain attribute object fields have been renamed and deprecated fields removed. These are outlined in the Upgrade Steps.

Reviewer: Per style guide formatting bullets:
```suggestion
* Certain attribute object fields have been renamed and deprecated fields removed. +
These are outlined in the Upgrade Steps text.
```

== Requirements and Limitations

You should be aware of some requirements and limitations before you upgrade to the latest version.

=== Requirements

Ensure that you meet the following requirements before you migrate.

* Mule 4.3.0 or later

* Java 8

== Upgrade Steps

Follow these steps to perform the upgrade to AS2 version 6.0.0:

> . Download the AS2 connector 6.0.0 from Exchange and place appropriate source/operation in the flow that is being upgraded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Download AS2 Connector 6.0.0 from Exchange and place appropriate sources and operations in the flow that is being upgraded.
```

=== Changes for AS2 Listener and AS2 MDN Listener

> There are no changes to the way AS2 Listener and AS2 MDN Listener is used or configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are no changes to the way AS2 Listener and AS2 MDN Listener are used or configured.
```

> === Changes for Send with Sync MDN and Send with Async MDN operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Changes for Send with Sync MDN and Send with Async MDN Operations
```

For `Send with Sync MDN` and `Send with Async MDN` operations:

> * An attribute object of type `com.mulesoft.connector.as2.api.AS2MdnAttributes` has been changed for v6.0.0. The field `com.mulesoft.connector.as2.api.AS2SendAttributes.as2MdnAttributes` is of type `com.mulesoft.connector.as2.api.AS2MdnAttributes`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An attribute object of type `com.mulesoft.connector.as2.api.AS2MdnAttributes` is changed in version 6.0.0. +
The field `com.mulesoft.connector.as2.api.AS2SendAttributes.as2MdnAttributes` is of type `com.mulesoft.connector.as2.api.AS2MdnAttributes`.
```

> * The MultiMap `dispositionContent` has been converted into an object called `DispositionNotification` splits the information of the disposition-notification part of the mdn into parameters. The `DispositionNotification` can be found in the `DispositionNotificationReport` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The MultiMap `dispositionContent` is converted into an object called `DispositionNotification` that splits the information of the disposition-notification part of the MDN into parameters. `DispositionNotification` can be found in the `DispositionNotificationReport` object.
```

> * The MultiMap `dispositionContent` has been changed into an object called `DispositionNotification` which now has each individual field of the message `disposition-notification` part of the mdn. The `DispositionNotification` can be found in the `DispositionNotificationReport` object.

Reviewer 2: The MultiMap `dispositionContent` has been converted into an object called `DispositionNotification` splits the information of the `disposition-notification` part of the mdn into parameters. The `DispositionNotification` can be found in the `DispositionNotificationReport` object.

> Amend mule flows that are using these attributes are accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amend Mule flows that are using these attributes accordingly.
```
You need to reread your text before sending it to be edited.

Reviewer: BREAK

Reviewer: RESUME

> === Changes in AS2 MDN attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Changes in AS2 MDN Attributes
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|v5.x Field Name| v6.0.0 Field Name | v5.x Type | v6.0.0 Type
|dispositionContent |dispositionContent | MultiMap<String, String> | DispositionNotificationReport

> |mdnMic | receivedContentMic | String | DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.String

Reviewer 2: receivedContentMic -> DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.receivedContentMic
DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.String -> String

Author: Do you mean replace this with the existing?

> |mdnMicAlg | receivedContentMicAlgorithm | HashAlgorithm | DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.HashAlgorithm

Reviewer 2: receivedContentMicAlgorithm -> DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.receivedContentMicAlgorithm
DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.HashAlgorithm -> HashAlgorithm

Author: Again, replace with existing?

> |mdnProcessed | DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.dispositionType | boolean | String

Reviewer: init. cap. Boolean?

> |mdnProcessed | dispositionType | boolean | DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.String

Reviewer 2: dispositionType -> DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.dispositionType
DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.String -> String

> |originalAS2MessageId | originalMessageID | String | DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.String

Reviewer 2: originalMessageID -> DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.originalMessageID
DispositionNotificationReport.DispositionNotification.String -> String

|reportText | Field Removed | String | Field Removed
|===

=== Verify the Upgrade

> After you perform the previous steps, follow these steps to complete the upgrade:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete the upgrade:
```

> . Verify that the connector is working by making sure there are no exceptions on startup and test it against your AS2 partner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Test for startup exceptions. +
. Test the connector against your AS2 partner.
```

> . Notify your Partners of any new URL (port) configurations that corresponds to the HTTP listener you are using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Notify your partners of any new URL (port) configurations that correspond to the HTTP Listener you are using.
```

> == Troubleshooting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Troubleshooting Caching Issues
```

> If there are problems with caching the parameters and caching the metadata, try restarting Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter issues with caching parameters or metadata, try restarting Studio.
```

== Revert the Upgrade

> If it is necessary to revert to the previous version of as2MdnAttributes Connector, change the `as2-connector` dependency version in the project's `pom.xml` file to the previous version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you must revert the connector, change the `as2-connector` dependency version in the project's `pom.xml` file to the previous version.
```

Reviewer: Consider giving an example:

If you must revert the connector (for example, if this happens), change the...."

> You must update the project's `pom.xml` file in Anypoint Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must then update the project's `pom.xml` file in Anypoint Studio.
```
Consider a task:

If you must revert the connector, for example, if this happens:
. Navigate to....
. In `pom.xml`, change the....
. Update `pom.xml`....
